Now let's see how quickly we can scaffold the logic necessary to display the user profile and for users
to be able to upload their avatar image.
So we will use what we already know.
So we will generate a controller using make controller artisan command.
We will call it user controller and this would be our resource controller which means all the crude
methods will be scaffold it.
And we want to tell it that this is for the specific model for the User model.
So let's just run it and explain further.
When we open the file so we've got generator the controller with all the methods that you've already
seen before on the post controller.
But this time when you have specified the model it is using the route model building so you can go back
to the lecture about route model bending.
If you don't remember what this is about.
But to say it's the most simple way whenever there is a model to be fetched for the action like for
the show or edit when you already have a model and the idea of that model is part of the route then
Lovell will fetch this model automatically for you if you will specify it by type painting.
The method argument using the type you wanted to try to fetch since we want the user this is type those
methods are type hinted with the user and they would be ultimately fetched.
So you don't have to use user fined or fined or fail or any fetching that you might be using.
Now the next thing we should do is we should generate our policy.
So let's do peach bee artisan make policy.
This would be user policy and we would like to generate it for the user model.
So now let's find our new user policy.
You can see that all the crude methods are also generated here so we can specify what can be performed
by whom.
So in case you use the same model as a user for example because those policies will always pass our
user instance so we can verify if this user can do something in case that we have a policy for the user
itself then the model that we are verifying those permissions on will be passed with their variable
name model.
Okay now we have generated this code.
Now let's go to that of service provider.
We did that before we have registered policies so let's register our policy for the User model.
So this would be up policies user policy.
That's the one thing.
Now let's open the web BHP.
We have also already defined routes for our controller and especially for resource controller.
It's enough to give this resource are you url.
So this will be users specify the controller name that we have just generated.
User controller and as I've said we only want to display their user profile so show is enough.
We want added to display the forum which we can use to provide user possibilities to upload a file and
update to actually save the changes.
Now let's open the terminal and run PSP artisan route least.
Now on this list of the generator routes you can see free routes that we have just added it's the user
show users update.
Users edit they all happen to have the user parameter as part of the route because they require to fetch
the User model before we do something with it either show it or modify it.
And thanks to that type hinting this parameter on the actual actions a lot of it will automatically
fetch a user model for us and it will have tried to find it by idea which should be specified as this
route parameter
now let's create a constructor inside the user controller.
So we define public function construct and what we want to do is.
Users would be able to view others profile only if they are authenticated.
So we are adding that our middleware to this controller to all its actions.
And the second thing that we would like to do is we want to how to rise certain actions and what we
can do this time.
We haven't tried before is to use our rice resource.
So what this will let us do is you can specify that for a certain class or certain eloquent model which
parameter name is.
The second argument the user it will use the registered model policy for this particular model since
we have created the user policy.
It will try to match the names of those actions to the specific ability checks inside their user policy.
Just for reference you can always try to open the post controller when I have created an array which
will show you how the action names of a resource controller are actually mapped to their ability checks
on that policy.
So after making this change inside the user controller you can rerun BHP artisan route least.
Now first let's maybe take a look at those routes those few routes that we have just generate that so
on the most right side you see what Middleware is registered to vote for those routes.
So now we only see web.
And also take a look at this secret page.
So this way if you remember we specified what ability checks should be done using this can middleware.
So now let's rerun this route least to see what has changed so those are our free routes right now.
So by adding that our middleware and how to raise a resource call what we have is all of those routes
have the alpha middleware.
So if you are an authenticated you can't visit them.
And also the can Middleware is added.
And the first part of the can Middleware is the action to be performed as you can see the show is the
view ability on the policy and this update and edit actions are both using the update ability on the
policy and separated by comma is the argument of the model that you should use to verify that and it
is actually user which is part of the root parameter which a lot of those will automatically fetch our
model for you.
So this might be a lot but actually it is very simple.
So each way you visited those routes Lavell will automatically fetch a user instance for you let's say
on this show page then on the route you can see that it will use the view ability which is this one
and it will use this user model specified here which is matching the parameter name and we already know
this would be are eloquent model and it will be passed here so you can verify those abilities of the
user if they can actually do what they want to do.
Now let's close the terminal and let's actually implement this user policy.
So here we would like to return true so everyone can view a user because we already check if the user
is authenticate it then no one can create a user because we have registering for that.
Now when someone will try to update the user we only allow them to edit their own avatars.
So we'll check if the currently authenticated user which is that one has the same I.D. as the model
which was passed from the root model building by Laura.
Well now no one can delete users so we return false.
We do not use self delete so also false and obviously no one can permanently delete a user in our application.
So this is also false Now let's go to the user controller to those actions that we want and let's try
to just use D.D. to dump the user.
We will see this way if we were actually able to get to those actions.
So do that in show in edit and insight update.
So there is one more thing we'll have to do because I am currently authenticated as admin and we have
this override that we allow admin to always perform update and delete.
So let's comment that out for a second.
Save the changes now let's try testing this by manually entering the EU or else.
So I am currently authenticated as the John Doe which is the admin with the user I.D. one so I'm viewing
his profile it's actually users not user.
And you can see that I see the user instance here.
Now if I would try to modify it and view the user two or three it all works because everyone who is
authenticated is allowed to actually view those users.
Now I would try now editing the user so I edit the user with idea 1 which is John Doe I should be able
to see this user as I am dumping him on the action but if I will modify it to user I.D. to now I am
not out arised so I cannot edit user which has a different I.D. than the currently authenticated one.
OK.
So we can command that again.
So we've seen how that works how quickly we're able to scaffold all this logic and in the next one we
will actually create the forums necessary for uploading the image.
We will implement the NOC the actions that we need.
And then we will work with the 1 to 1 polymorphic relationship to store all the images inside inside
one database table.